Add infrastructure overview doc (#1481)
kubevirt/project-infra: docs/infrastructure-components.md

# Infrastructure components

We describe here the elements that form the infrastructure required for projects
under KubeVirt's umbrella. This mainly involves components required to run our
CI/CD systems and related services, like the monitoring stack or applications for
indexing and querying build logs.

The CI/CD system is based on [Prow], kubernetes CI system. For a brief overview
of how Prow runs jobs take a look at ["Life of a Prow Job"]. To see common Prow
usage and interactions flow, see the pull request interactions [sequence diagram].

## Layout

![infra-layout](infra-layout.svg)

## Clusters

Our infrastructure includes the following clusters. For each of them, this

> document provides the following fields include the following fields:

Reviewer: @fgimenez I think `this
document provides the following fields include the following fields` has duplication. Did you mean `this document provides the following fields`?

Author: Indeed good catch! Should be fixed now, PTAL.

# Infrastructure components

We describe here the elements that form the infrastructure required for projects
under KubeVirt's umbrella. This mainly involves components required to run our
CI/CD systems and related services, like the monitoring stack or applications for
indexing and querying build logs.

The CI/CD system is based on [Prow], kubernetes CI system. For a brief overview
of how Prow runs jobs take a look at ["Life of a Prow Job"]. To see common Prow
usage and interactions flow, see the pull request interactions [sequence diagram].

## Layout

> ![infra-layout](infra-layout.png)

Reviewer 2: can we have this in an editable SVG?

## Clusters

> Our infrastructure currently uses 3 main clusters. For each of them we will

Reviewer 2: Do we have non-main clusters? Shouldn't we list them all here?

How about
```suggestion
Our infrastructure includes the following clusters. For each of them, this document provides the following fields
```

Author: Sounds good :+1:

include the following fields:

* Description: brief explanation of the cluster purpose.

> * Context: context name of the cluster in the master kubeconfig used by Prow to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Prow context: context name of the cluster in the master kubeconfig used by Prow to
```
maybe?

Reviewer 2: can you add a url to the master kubeconfig?

Author: Sure done. It is part of the automation secrets, though. There's  a good explanation about how it is handled in the document about adding new clusters proposed here #1487, added a link to it too.

access it. It is also the value of the `cluster` field in the Prow jobs that run
on the cluster.
* Components: which workloads run in the cluster, according to the layout picture
above.
* External services: functionality not running in our infra that is required for
the normal operation of the workloads running in the cluster.
* Connected clusters: for each cluster, which others are required for its normal
operation.
* Exposed services: functionality accessible from outside the cluster, usually as
web applications.

### Control plane

> #### Description

Reviewer 2: to me, the "Description" section is pointless. I'd just have the text follow the name of the cluster

Author: Sure done

* slack: some notifications are sent to a specific slack channel.

#### Connected clusters

* Workloads and phx-prow, the control plane schedules CI jobs on them.

#### Exposed services

* deck: Prow UI, available at https://prow.ci.kubevirt.io

* grafana: available at https://grafana.ci.kubevirt.io

* ci-search: available at https://search.ci.kubevirt.io

### Workloads

#### Description

This is a self managed cluster with bare metals as workers. It runs the e2e jobs.

#### Context

prow-workloads

#### Components

* Monitoring stack: prometheus with thanos sidecar and node-exporter

* Bazel cache ([greenhouse]) speeds up the builds that use bazel.

* [docker proxy]: acts as a cache for docker images, reducing the need to access
external registries.

#### External services

* GCS: we use buckets to store:
  * Build artifacts
  * Thanos blocks

* Quay: we mainly use quay as our container image registry, the images used for
testing and the image artifacts are stored here.

#### Connected clusters

Control plane, it sends prow jobs here to be executed and retrieves its state.

#### Exposed services

None.

### phx-prow

#### Description

> Old cluster where Prow control plane run initially. It is still used to run some

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Old cluster where Prow control plane used to run. It is still used to run some
```
better English

jobs.

#### Context

phx-prow

#### Components

* [docker proxy]: acts as a cache for docker images, reducing the need to access
external registries.

#### External services

* Quay: we mainly use quay as our container image registry, the images used for
testing and the image artifacts are stored here.

#### Connected clusters

> Control plane, it sends prow jobs here to be executed and retrieves its state.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Control plane cluster sends prow jobs here to be executed and retrieves its state.
```
